[IMP] subscriptions: add reporting doc (#721)
odoo/documentation-user: subscriptions/follow_up/automatic_alerts.rst

=======================
Set up automatic alerts
=======================

Now that your subscriptions are up and running, you want to stay up-to-date with your customers.
Some automation would be appreciated since you would not want to go through the list of all your
subscribers to check how things are going. This is what the *Automatic Alerts* feature is for.

For example, when customers subscribe to your magazine, you would probably want to send them an
email to welcome them and express your gratitude. Or, if the satisfaction rate of your customers
drops below 50%, you would probably want to schedule a call with them to understand the reasons for
their dissatisfaction.

> With **Odoo Subscriptions**, you can set automatic emails, you can also create a "Call" task for one
> of your salespeople so that he/she can try to understand your customer's dissatisfaction, and finally,
> why not automatically send satisfaction surveys so customers can evaluate your services? All of that
> is now possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With **Odoo Subscriptions**, you can set automatic emails, create a "Call" task for one
of your salespeople so that he/she can try to understand your customer's dissatisfaction, and finally,
why not automatically send satisfaction surveys so customers can evaluate your services? All of that
is now possible.
```

Create a new automatic alert
============================

The following example shows how to create a new automatic alert to send satisfaction surveys to your
customers, by email, after one month of subscription. To do so, go to
:menuselection:`Subscriptions --> Configuration --> Alerts`, and create a new
alert.

.. image:: media/create-a-new-automatic-alert.png
  :align: center
  :alt: New automatic alert in Odoo Subscriptions

1. On the *Apply on* section, first give the alert a name. Then, you can choose to apply this alert
   on a subscription template, on a specific customer, or even on a specific product. If you want to
   add more specifications, you can also specify the value of your MRR, the change rate of your MRR
   over a certain period of time, the value of the satisfaction rate, and even the stage to which
   you want to apply this alert.

   .. note::
      In this example, the alert is applied to a specific product, and the stage goes from *Undefined*

>       to *In progress*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      to *In Progress*.
```

   *Modification*, the action is triggered every time there is a change or anything added to the
   subscription, and all the conditions on the *Apply on* section are met. Now, if the *Trigger on*
   is set to *Timed condition*, it means that the action is triggered based on the type of
   *Trigger date*. After that, you can choose your *Action*. You have the choice between
   *Create next activity*, *Set a tag on the subscription*, *Set a stage on the subscription*,
   *Mark as To Renew*, *Send an email to the customer* and *Send an SMS Text Message to the customer*.

   .. note::
      In the example above, the *Trigger on* is set to *Timed condition*, therefore, a *Trigger date*
      and *Delay after trigger* need to be specified. And because the *Send an email to the customer*
      action was adopted, an *Email template* can be chosen.

As a result, this alert will send a rating survey after one month, to the customers who have purchased
that specific product. The survey will appear in the chatter of your respective subscription.

.. image:: media/rating-satisfaction-survey.png
  :align: center
  :alt: Satisfaction survey in Odoo Subscriptions

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Modify an existing automatic alert
==================================

By default, Odoo suggests you an automatic alert called *Take action on less satisfied clients*.

> .. image:: media/modify-an-existing-automatic-alert.png

Reviewer: I would try to get rid of a bit more of the white spaces, in order to make the image be a bit more easily 'readable'.

Author: I already used GIMP to get rid of these white spaces... But the purple header is taking too much space, even if I restore down my window... :/

=======================
Set up automatic alerts
=======================

Now that your subscriptions are up and running, you want to stay up-to-date with your customers.
Some automation would be appreciated since you would not want to go through the list of all your
subscribers to check how things are going. This is what the *Automatic alerts* feature is for.

For example, when customers subscribe to your magazine, you probably want to send them an email to
welcome them and express your gratitude. Or, if the satisfaction rate of your customers drops below
50%, you probably want to schedule a call with them to understand the reasons of their
dissatisfaction.

With **Odoo Subscriptions**, you can automatically send an email to your customers to welcome them,
you can also create a "Call" task for one of your salespeople so that he/she can try to understand
your customer's dissatisfaction and finally, why not automatically send satisfaction surveys by
email after a month to your customers to evaluate your services? All of that is possible with our
amazing application!

Create a new automatic alert
============================

> In this example, it is shown how to create a new automatic alert to automatically send satisfaction
> surveys to your customers by email after one month of subscription. Go to
> :menuselection:`Subscriptions --> Configuration --> Alerts`. From there, you can create a new
> alert.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to create a new automatic alert to send satisfaction
surveys to your customers, by email, after one month of subscription. To do so, go to
:menuselection:`Subscriptions --> Configuration --> Alerts`, and create a new
alert.
```

> .. image:: media/create-a-new-automatic-alert.png

Reviewer: This is also a screenshot on master. I would make sure the screenshots are on 13 :)

Author: Done 👍

  :align: center
  :alt: New automatic alert in Odoo Subscriptions

> 1. The first thing you need to add in the *Apply on* section is a name. Then, you can choose what
>    to apply this to. Indeed, you can apply this alert on a subscription template, on a specific
>    customer or even on a specific product. If you want to add more specifications, you can also
>    specify the value of your MRR, the change rate of your MRR over a certain period of time, the
>    value of the satisfaction rate and even, the stage to which you want to apply this alert.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On the *Apply on* section, first give the alert a name. Then, you can choose to apply this alert on a subscription template, on a specific
   customer, or even on a specific product. If you want to add more specifications, you can also
   specify the value of your MRR, the change rate of your MRR over a certain period of time, the
   value of the satisfaction rate, and even the stage to which you want to apply this alert.
```

   .. note::

>       In this example, the alert is applied to a specific product and the stage goes from nothing
>       to in progress.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      In this example, the alert is applied to a specific product, and the stage goes from *undefined*
      to *in Progress*.
```

> 2. For the *Action section*, you can specify your *Action* and your *Trigger on*. If the *Trigger on*
>    is equal to *Modification*, it means that the action is triggered every time there is a change or
>    anything added to the subscription and that all the conditions in the *Apply on* section are met.
>    Now, if the *Trigger on* is set on *Timed condition*, it means that the action is triggered based
>    on the type of trigger date. After that, you can choose your *Action*. You have the choice between
>    *Create next activity*, *Set a tag on the subscription*, *Set a stage on the subscription*,
>    *Mark as To renew*, *Send an email to the customer* and *Send an SMS Text Message to the customer*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. For the *Action* section, specify the *Action* and *Trigger on*. If the *Trigger on*
   is set to *Modification*, the action is triggered every time there is a change or
   anything added to the subscription, and all the conditions on the *Apply on* section are met.
   Now, if the *Trigger on* is set to *Timed Condition*, it means that the action is triggered based
   on the type of *Trigger Date*. After that, you can choose your *Action*.
```

   .. note::

>       In this example, the *Trigger on* is set on *Timed condition* that is why the *Trigger date*
>       is specified as well as the *Delay after trigger*. The *Send an email to the customer* action
>       has been chosen. You can even specify the *Email template* you want to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      In the example above, the *Trigger on* is set to *Timed Condition*, therefore, a *Trigger Date*
      and *Delay After Trigger* need to be specified. And because the *Send an email to the customer* action
      was adopted, an *Email Template* can be chosen.
```

> In the end, this alert with this specific configuration will send a rating survey to assess the
> experience after one month only to the customers who have purchased this specific product. This
> survey will appear in the chatter of your associated subscription.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a result, this alert will send a rating survey after one month, to the customers who have purchased that specific product. The
survey will appear in the chatter of your respective subscription.
```

.. image:: media/rating-satisfaction-survey.png
  :align: center
  :alt: Satisfaction survey in Odoo Subscriptions

Modify an existing automatic alert
==================================

> In this example, it is shown how to modify an existing automatic alert. By default, Odoo suggests
> you an automatic alert called *Take action on less satisfied clients*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, Odoo suggests
you an automatic alert called *Take action on less satisfied clients*.
```

.. image:: media/modify-an-existing-automatic-alert.png
  :align: center
  :alt: Modify an existing automatic alert in Odoo Subscriptions

> This alert is applied to the rating satisfaction of your customers and the action is triggered on
> *Timed condition*. If their satisfaction is less than 50%, a salesperson will have to call them.
> This action is automatically assigned to the salesperson who manages the subscription and the due
> date is 5 days after the triggering of this action. This alert ensures that your clients are happy
> and that you are taking actions if they are not. It keeps your customer retention very high.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This alert is applied to the *Rating Satisfaction* of your customers, and the action is triggered on
*Timed condition*. If their satisfaction rate is lower than 50%, a salesperson contacts the customer.
This action is automatically assigned to the salesperson who manages the subscription, and the due
date is 5 days after the triggering of this action. This alert ensures that your clients are happy
and that you are taking actions if they are not. It helps to keep customer retention rates high.
```

.. note::

>    By editing the alert, you can modify the *Apply on*, the *Action* and the *Activity* sections
>    by adapting them to your own needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   By editing the alert, you can modify the *Apply on*, the *Action* and *Activity* sections,
   and adapt them to your own needs.
```
